# Statistical-Analysis-to-Estimate-Magnitude-of-Fugitive-Methane

### This work is in process of publication for a scientific journal. Real data set and new developed codes are removed from this script. The completed script will be uploaded when the paper gets published.

Natural gas (NG) is promoted as a bridge fuel over the coming few decades: it is reviewed as a transitional fuel that allows continued dependence on fossil fuels  with lower greenhouse gas footprint. Exploitation and development of NG has started since last decade and the production rates are increasing due to recent advances in extraction technologies, larger potential resource, close to major markets, relatively inexpensive to produce and depletion of other fossil-fuel solutions in many regions.

Despite the attractive bridge solution of NG, significant monitoring and research should be considered to assess its greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint. Methane (CH4) is the major component of NG and it is a very potent GHG. When the indirect effects of methane on atmospheric aerosols are considered, recent modeling shows that methane has an even greater global warming potential. Methane can be released directly to the atmosphere from leaks at the well production and pipeline facilities, hence questioning its advantage over competing other fossil fuels such as coal. Significant debate is related to the magnitude of the fugitive emissions. Much of the discussions revolves around whether the total release is above or below the cut off of 3.2\%, higher which NG is considered to be worse than coal from a GHG standpoint. So, it is necessary to quantify fugitive emissions from wells, pipelines and facilities over the course of extraction and production. 

There has previously been attempts for detection of fugitive emissions. Mobile measurement approaches apply specialized equipment and procedures for inverse source emission estimation. It quantifies concentration in the crosswind direction as a function of lateral position through the plume. Addressing leakage point sources can be demonstrated as the concentration plume disperses laterally with a Gaussian structure that widens with downwind distance. Point-source Gaussian (PSG), part of Other Test Method (OTM) 33A, is commonly applied to estimate emission rate. This approach  fits a Gaussian dispersion model to the measurements; a look-up table reference of Gaussian dispersion models are constructed based on source distance and an estimate of atmospheric stability; however, estimates of emission rates depends strongly on meteorological conditions during mobile measurement operation. Even the best source-inference techniques work reasonably only under a limited range of dominant wind conditions: the estimated emission rates are usually uncertain due to shifting mean wind speed and direction resulting in instantaneous plume and measurement error (noise and artifact). Inaccurate estimation of true CH4 emission leads to complicate the identification of the most effective CH4 mitigation options for minimizing greenhouse gas emissions. Exhaustive mobile measurement or repetition may lead to more reliable estimation. However, mobile measurements are labour-intensive for use in large oil and gas developments. The main objective of this work is to improve PSG approach for estimation of fugitive gas by considering uncertainty in limited field measurement (uncertainty in wind speed and wind direction).
